Secure supply chain docs (#100)
kubewarden/docs: src/distributing-policies/secure-supply-chain.md

executed in the environment. The `configmap` follows the same structure of the
file used to verify policy in the `kwctl`. The different is that the `configmap`
should define all the configuration under the `verification-config` field.
As example, let's consider that the users want to run policies signed by the Kubewarden
organization they can create a `configmap` with the following commands:

```bash
cat kubewarden_signatures.yaml
apiVersion: v1
allOf:
  - kind: githubAction
    owner: kubewarden

# note that the data is stored under verification-config field
kubectl  create configmap my-signatures-configuration --from-file=verification-config=kubewarden_signatures.yaml

kubectl  get configmap -o yaml my-signatures-configuration
apiVersion: v1
data:
  verification-config: |
    apiVersion: v1
    allOf:
      - kind: githubAction
        owner: kubewarden
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2022-03-29T18:27:20Z"
  name: my-signatures-configuration
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "10279"
  uid: d53e1c56-1fee-45de-92f5-9bd73b8cead4

```

After creating the `configmap` to store the signature requirements, the users

> can configure a Policy Server to start validate policy signatures setting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can configure a Policy Server to start validating policy signatures by setting the
```

`configmap` name in the field `verificationConfig`.

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: default
  finalizers:
    - kubewarden
spec:
  image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/policy-server:v0.2.7
  serviceAccountName: policy-server
  replicas: 1
  verificationConfig: your_configmap   #name of the confimap with the signatures requirements
  env:
    - name: KUBEWARDEN_ENABLE_METRICS
      value: "1"
    - name: KUBEWARDEN_LOG_FMT
      value: otlp
    - name: "KUBEWARDEN_LOG_LEVEL"
      value: "info"

```

If you deploy the default Policy Server using the `kubewarden-defaults`

> helm chart, you configure this field setting the `configmap` name in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm chart, you can configure this field by setting the `configmap` name in the
```

`policyServer.verificationConfig` value.

> Now, when a untrusted policy is installed the Policy Server will exit before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, when an untrusted policy is installed the Policy Server will exit before
```

> start receiving any admission review requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it starts receiving any admission review requests.
```

# Secure Supply Chain

> Users can configure Kubewarden to run policies signed by only entities that they

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase this paragraph as: (note the different usage of `only`)

> Cluster Operators can configure Kubewarden to only run policies signed by entities that they
trust, to ensure the validity of the policies' chain of custody.  
Policy developers can sign their policies and publish them in a registry.
Signing and verifying policies and container images is achieved via the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev) project.

And maybe add a short description of what a Secure Supply Chain is or entails.

trust by using the [sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev) project. This means that
policy developers can sign their policies and publish them in a registry.
The cluster operators can run these signed policies and ensure the validity of the policies chain of custody

> ## Signing the policies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Signing policies
```

Shorter, and matches the rest of the document.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe it would be a good idea to explain what signing entails: that it will add a layer into the container image, and get it pushed into the repo. Then, when people sign things later, they know what to expect.

Reviewer 3: we could also explain how to show the signatures with `kwctl inspect`

> Kubewarden recommends using the [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubewarden recommends using Sigstore's [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) utility
```

in verifying whether the signed artifacts came from the expected user i.e. the
owner of the keys. Using the `cosign generate-key-pair` command, as illustrated
below, it is possible to generate the aforementioned keypair.

```bash
cosign generate-key-pair
Enter password for private key:
Enter password for private key again:
Private key written to cosign.key
Public key written to cosign.pub
```

Once the keys are generated, users can use it to sign policies.

> **WARNING**: The private key file,  `cosign.key`, should not be shared. This
> is a secret file that should be used only by the owner of the key for signing policies.

To sign a policy users can execute the `cosign sign` command passing the `--key`
command line argument with their private key file:

```bash
cosign sign --key cosign.key ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp:latest
an error occurred: no provider found for that key reference, will try to load key from disk...
Enter password for private key:
Pushing signature to: ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp
```

This command will sign the policy and publish the signature data in the registry

> as well. Now the policies are ready to be used in a Kubewarden installation with signature

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as well. Now the policy is ready to be used in a Kubewarden installation with signature
```

verification enabled.

### Keyless signing

> Many times the policies are automatically built in CI/CD pipelines which complicates

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase to something like:

> Many times the policies are automatically built in CI/CD pipelines which complicates
the key generation process. The Sigstore workflow is specifically designed for these situations and others where key generation is not possible.
Instead of using long-lived singing keys, the keyless workflow uses CAs and certificate chains: a short-lived certificate key is generated, and linked into a chain of trust by completing an identity challenge to confirm the signer's identity. The short-lived certificate key is around just enough for the signing to occur. The identity challenge is performed by authenticating against an OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider, Sigstore's [Fulcio](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio) service is used for the chain of trust.
> 
> For signing, we will again use Sigstore's `cosign` utility. However, as of this writing, this feature is not enabled by default in `cosign`. So, it's necessary to enable this experimental feature before proceeding with keyless signing as shown below:

the key generation process. For these situations and others where key generation is not
possible, `cosign` has an experimental feature, keyless signing. This allows the users to
sign policies without a previously created key. By using
[Fulcio](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio), ephemeral keys are generated that can be used to
sign the artifact only once.

To ensure the identity of the user for these keys, Fulcio uses an OIDC provider
to generate the ephemeral keys. This means that, during the signing process users
must sign-in using one of the OIDC providers, as shown in the below image:

![Sigstore OIDC](./sigstore_oidc.png)

After signing in, `cosign` will finish the signing process.

However, as of this writing, this feature is not enabled by default
in `cosign`. So, it's necessary to enable this experimental feature before
proceeding with keyless signing as shown below:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: Nit: 
```suggestion
```console
```

And maybe start with a `$`? (same for other command blocks)

 COSIGN_EXPERIMENTAL=1 cosign sign ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp:latest
Generating ephemeral keys...
Retrieving signed certificate...
Your browser will now be opened to:
https://oauth2.sigstore.dev/auth/auth?access_type=online&client_id=sigstore&code_challenge=<REDACTED>&code_challenge_method=S256&nonce=<REDACTED>&redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A34021%2Fauth%2Fcallback&response_type=code&scope=openid+email&state=<REDACTED>
client.go:196: root pinning is not supported in Spec 1.0.19
Successfully verified SCT...
tlog entry created with index: 1819248
Pushing signature to: ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With that, the policy has been signed and pushed to the repository. Note that there are no byproduct keys.

```

### How to sign artefacts in Github workflows

`cosign` does not require the user to log on to an OIDC provider when using keyless signing
in the context of a GitHub action environment. In this scenario,
the Github token available during the execution of the workflow will be used to
authenticate the user and generate the ephemeral keys.

## Verifying policies

Users can check if a policy is properly signed with  `cosign` or `kwctl`.
Both have similar command line flags which allow users to check the policy
signatures. To check if the binary is signed with a key, the users can use `kwctl`

> like this:

Reviewer 2: One can list all signatures with `kwctl inspect`, and verify them with `kwctl verify`.

this kind simplify the signature requirement creation by defining two fields:

- `owner` (mandatory): Github ID of the user or organization to be trusted
- `repo`: the name of the repository to be trusted

**Example**

```yaml
- kind: githubAction
  owner: kubewarden
```

#### Signature annotations validation

All the signature types can have one additional optional validation field, `annotations`.
This fields are key/value data added by the users during the signing. Thus, it is
possible to trust policies which have some required annotations.

**Examples**

If the users want to trust only policies which have been signed with some key
and the annotation `environment` with the value `production`, they can define the
following validation:

```yaml
- kind: pubKey
  key: |
    -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
    MBFKHFDGHKIJH0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAEX0HFTtCfTtPmkx5p1RbDE6HJSGAVD
    BVDF6SKFSF87AASUspkQsN3FO4iyWodCy5j3o0CdIJD/KJHDJFHDFIu6sA==
    -----END PUBLIC KEY-----
  annotation:
    environment: production
```

#### How to use signatures verification file to check a policy OCI artifact

To test if a given policy passes in the signatures verification using the

> verification file, use the `--verification-config-path`  flag of the `kwctl verify` command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
verification config file, use the `--verification-config-path`  flag of the `kwctl verify` command
```

It could also be shorted to "Use `kwctl verify --verification-config-path` as shown here: (example follows)"

    apiVersion: v1
    allOf:
      - kind: githubAction
        owner: kubewarden
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2022-03-29T18:27:20Z"
  name: my-signatures-configuration
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "10279"
  uid: d53e1c56-1fee-45de-92f5-9bd73b8cead4

```

After creating the `configmap` to store the signature requirements, the users
can configure a Policy Server to start validating policy signatures by setting the
`configmap` name in the field `verificationConfig`.

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: default
  finalizers:
    - kubewarden
spec:
  image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/policy-server:v0.2.7
  serviceAccountName: policy-server
  replicas: 1
  verificationConfig: your_configmap   #name of the confimap with the signatures requirements
  env:
    - name: KUBEWARDEN_ENABLE_METRICS
      value: "1"
    - name: KUBEWARDEN_LOG_FMT
      value: otlp
    - name: "KUBEWARDEN_LOG_LEVEL"
      value: "info"

```

If you deploy the default Policy Server using the `kubewarden-defaults`
Helm chart, you can configure this field by setting the `configmap` name in the
`policyServer.verificationConfig` value.

> Now, when an untrusted policy is installed the Policy Server will exit before

Reviewer 2: I would reword to something like:

> Now, the PolicyServer will reject untrusted AdmissionPolicies and ClusterAdmissionPolicies, and those would never be in active status and processing admission review requests.

in `cosign`. So, it's necessary to enable this experimental feature before
proceeding with keyless signing as shown below:

```bash
 COSIGN_EXPERIMENTAL=1 cosign sign ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp:latest
Generating ephemeral keys...
Retrieving signed certificate...
Your browser will now be opened to:
https://oauth2.sigstore.dev/auth/auth?access_type=online&client_id=sigstore&code_challenge=<REDACTED>&code_challenge_method=S256&nonce=<REDACTED>&redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A34021%2Fauth%2Fcallback&response_type=code&scope=openid+email&state=<REDACTED>
client.go:196: root pinning is not supported in Spec 1.0.19
Successfully verified SCT...
tlog entry created with index: 1819248
Pushing signature to: ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp
```
With that, the policy has been signed and pushed to the repository. Note that there are no byproduct keys.

### How to sign artefacts in Github workflows

`cosign` does not require the user to log on to an OIDC provider when using keyless signing
in the context of a GitHub action environment. In this scenario,
the Github token available during the execution of the workflow will be used to

> authenticate the user and generate the ephemeral keys.

Reviewer 3: what do you think if we give a gh action workflow example or we show a link to kubewarden gh action that it is signing the policies?

# Secure Supply Chain

> A Secure Supply Chain infrastructure allow the developers and users to ensure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Secure Supply Chain infrastructure allows software developers and users to ensure
```

> the validity of the software artefacts' chain of custody. Thus, mitigating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the validity of the software artefacts' chain of custody. Thus, mitigating
```
```suggestion
the validity of the it's artefacts' chain of custody; thus mitigating
```

> security issues in the their environments. [Sigstore project](https://sigstore.dev/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
security issues in their environments. [The goal of the [Sigstore project](https://sigstore.dev/)
```

> goal is to provide the tools and infrastructure to make that possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is to provide the tools and infrastructure for validating the integrity of the supply chain.
```

> Kubewarden leverage that to bring this security measures to its users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubewarden leverages the `cosign` and `fulcio` utilities offered by the sigstore project to bring these security measures to its users.
```

> Therefore, Cluster Operators can configure Kubewarden to only run policies signed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, cluster operators can configure Kubewarden to only run policies signed
```

> by entities that they trust. While policy developers can sign their policies and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by entities that they trust while policy developers can sign their policies and
```

publish them in a registry.

> 

Author: Right! I'll add this section asap.

> 

Author: Done! Please, review it as well. :)

in which, users need to generate a private-public key pair. The generated keys help
in verifying whether the signed artefacts came from the expected user i.e. the
owner of the keys. Using the `cosign generate-key-pair` command, as illustrated
below, it is possible to generate the aforementioned keypair.

```bash
cosign generate-key-pair
Enter password for private key:
Enter password for private key again:
Private key written to cosign.key
Public key written to cosign.pub
```

Once the keys are generated, users can use it to sign policies.

> **WARNING**: The private key file, `cosign.key`, should not be shared. This
> is a secret file that should be used only by the owner of the key for signing policies.

To sign a policy users can execute the `cosign sign` command passing the `--key`
command line argument with their private key file:

```bash
cosign sign --key cosign.key ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp:latest
an error occurred: no provider found for that key reference, will try to load key from disk...
Enter password for private key:
Pushing signature to: ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp
```

This command will sign the policy adding annotations in the image. The signed

> image is then upload into the registry. Now the policy is ready to be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image is then uploaded into the registry. Now the policy is ready to be used
```

in a Kubewarden installation with signature verification enabled.

> **NOTE**: For more information about how the signing process works under the hood, check
> out the [Sigstore project documentation](https://docs.sigstore.dev/)

### Keyless signing

Many times the policies are automatically built in CI/CD pipelines which complicates

> the key generation process. The Sigstore workflow is specifically designed for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the key generation process. The Sigstore keyless workflow described below is specifically designed for
```

these situations and others where key generation is not possible.

> Instead of using long-lived singing keys, the keyless workflow uses CAs and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using long-lived singing keys, the keyless workflow uses certificate authorities (CAs) and
```

> certificate chains: a short-lived certificate key is generated, and linked into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certificate chains; a short-lived certificate key is generated, and linked into
```

a chain of trust by completing an identity challenge to confirm the signer's

> identity. The short-lived certificate key is around just enough for the signing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
identity. The life of the certificate key is just about enough for the signing
```

to occur. The identity challenge is performed by authenticating against an

> OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider, Sigstore's Fulcio service is used for the chain of trust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider. Sigstore's Fulcio service is used for the chain of trust.
```

in the context of a GitHub action environment. In this scenario,
the GitHub token available during the execution of the workflow will be used to
authenticate the user and generate the ephemeral keys. The signing process is
the same used in the `Keyless` mode. This is an example of how Kubewarden project
signs its policies:

```yaml
# ... beginning of the workflow file
runs:
  using: "composite"
  steps:
    -
      name: Login to GitHub Container Registry
      uses: docker/login-action@v1
      with:
        registry: ghcr.io
        username: ${{ github.repository_owner }}
        password: ${{ inputs.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    -
      name: Publish Wasm policy artifact to OCI registry with the 'latest' tag
      shell: bash
      if: ${{ startsWith(github.ref, 'refs/heads/') }}
      env:
        COSIGN_EXPERIMENTAL: 1
      run: |
        set -ex
        echo Pushing policy to OCI container registry
        IMMUTABLE_REF=$(kwctl push -o json ${{ inputs.annotated-wasm }} ${{ inputs.oci-target }}:latest | jq -r .immutable_ref)
        echo Keyless signing of policy using cosign
        cosign sign ${IMMUTABLE_REF}

> # ... remaining of the workflow file

Author: Ops...

```
> **NOTE**: This example came from the Github actions used at the time of this
> writing. It can change over time.

> In the example above, it uses `kwctl` to publish the container image and find

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, we demonstrate using `kwctl` to publish the container image and find
```

the reference to it. This is not mandatory. You can call `cosign` with the image

> reference generated else where.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reference generated else where.
```
```suggestion
reference generated elsewhere.
```

## Listing policy signatures

> `kwctl` also allows the users to check what are the signatures in a published

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kwctl` also allows the users to check the signatures in a published
```

> policy. The `kwctl inpect` command shows all the relevant information about the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
policy. The `kwctl inspect` command shows all the relevant information about the
```

> policy and its signatures. See an example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
policy and its signatures as illustrated in an example below:
```

like this:

```console
$ kwctl verify -k cosign.pub ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp:latest
2022-03-29T14:49:16.623079Z ERROR policy_fetcher::registry::config: error parsing host configuration, host ignored host=https://index.docker.io/v1/ error=basic auth not in the form username:password
2022-03-29T14:49:31.878180Z  INFO kwctl::verify: Policy successfully verified
```

Or `cosign` :

```console
$ cosign verify --key cosign.pub ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp:latest

Verification for ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp:latest --
The following checks were performed on each of these signatures:
  - The cosign claims were validated
  - The signatures were verified against the specified public key
  - Any certificates were verified against the Fulcio roots.

[{"critical":{"identity":{"docker-reference":"ghcr.io/jvanz/policies/user-group-psp"},"image":{"docker-manifest-digest":"sha256:af520a8ccee03811d426c48634b7007f1220c121cc23e14962bb64510585ce97"},"type":"cosign container image signature"},"optional":null}]
```

## Configuring the policy server to check policy signatures

To configure Kubewarden to run only trusted policies, the users must create

> a `configmap` with the minimum signatures requirements needed for policies to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a `configmap` with the minimum signature requirements needed for policies to be
```

allOf:
  - kind: githubAction
    owner: kubewarden
    repo: ~
    annotations: ~
anyOf: ~

$ kubectl  create configmap my-signatures-configuration --from-file=verification-config=verification_config.yaml
configmap/my-signatures-configuration created
$ kubectl  get configmap -o yaml my-signatures-configuration
apiVersion: v1
data:
  verification-config: |+
    # Default Kubewarden verification config
    #
    # With this config, the only valid policies are those signed by Kubewarden
    # infrastructure.
    #
    # This config can be saved to its default location (for this OS) with:
    #   kwctl scaffold verification-config > /home/jvanz/.config/kubewarden/verification-config.yml
    #
    # Providing a config in the default location enables Sigstore verification.
    # See https://docs.kubewarden.io for more Sigstore verification options.
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    allOf:
      - kind: githubAction
        owner: kubewarden
        repo: ~
        annotations: ~
    anyOf: ~

kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2022-04-07T11:54:27Z"
  name: my-signatures-configuration
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "1317"
  uid: 74dec846-7fcd-4b4b-8184-700c816f685a

> 

Reviewer 4: Maybe drop this empty line?

```

After creating the `configmap` to store the signature requirements, the users
can configure a Policy Server to start validating policy signatures by setting the
`configmap` name in the field `verificationConfig`.

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
kind: PolicyServer
metadata:
  name: default
  finalizers:
    - kubewarden
spec:
  image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/policy-server:v0.2.7
  serviceAccountName: policy-server
  replicas: 1
  verificationConfig: your_configmap   #name of the confimap with the signatures requirements
  env:
    - name: KUBEWARDEN_ENABLE_METRICS
      value: "1"
    - name: KUBEWARDEN_LOG_FMT
      value: otlp
    - name: "KUBEWARDEN_LOG_LEVEL"
      value: "info"

> 

Reviewer 4: Maybe drop the empty line?

```

If you deploy the default Policy Server using the `kubewarden-defaults`

> Helm chart, you can configure this field by setting the `configmap` name in the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Helm chart, you can configure this field by setting the `ConfigMap` name in the
```

`policyServer.verificationConfig` value.

Now, the PolicyServer will reject untrusted AdmissionPolicies and ClusterAdmissionPolicies,

> and those would never be in active status and processing admission review requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and those would never be in active status or able to process admission review requests.
```

> and those would never be in active status or able to process admission review requests.

Reviewer 4: This would be nice, but that's not actually the case :(

It would be cool to have our kubewarden-controller's validating admission webhook reject the creation of `AdmissionPolicy` and `ClusterAdmissionPolicies` that do not use trusted policies. Maybe we should create an issue for that. Could you do that please? :pleading_face: 

However, currently the behaviour is going to be different: Policy Server will refuse to start if even one of the policies referenced by the user cannot be trusted.

Author: Done!

    issuer: https://github.com/login/oauth
    subject:
      equal: alice@example.com
  - kind: genericIssuer
    issuer: https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com
    subject:
      equal: https://github.com/flavio/policy-secure-pod-images/.github/workflows/release.yml@refs/heads/main
  - kind: genericIssuer
    issuer: https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com
    subject:
      urlPrefix: https://github.com/flavio/
  - kind: genericIssuer
    issuer: https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com
    subject:
      urlPrefix: https://github.com/kubewarden # <- it will be post-fixed with `/` for security reasons
  - kind: githubAction
    owner: flavio   # mandatory
    repo: policy1 # optional
  - kind: pubKey
    owner: alice # optional
    key: .... # mandatory
```

The configuration is composed of two sections:

- `anyOf`:  The policy will be trusted if the `minimumMatches` criterion is fulfilled.
In the above example, the `minimumMatches` field has been assigned a value 2.
This means that at least two of the signature requirements listed **need to be fulfilled**
for the policy to be trusted. The default value that the `minimumMatches` field assumes is `1`.

> - `allOf`: All the signatures requirements defined in this section must be valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `allOf`: All the signature requirements defined in this section must be valid
```

so that the policy can be trusted.

Each of these sections can contain one or more signature requirements.
Users can also define both sections in one file as shown above. In this situations, all
the signatures requirements from the `allOf` **AND** a minimum number of matches

> from the `anyOf` section as described in the `minimumMatches` field must be valid.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
from the `anyOf` section as described in the `minimumMatches` field must be satisfied.
```

### Signature validation

The users can validate different signatures in the `anyOf` and `allOf` sections.
It's possible to validate the public key and the keyless data used to sign the policy.

> ### Public key validation

Reviewer 4: Should this become a `<h4>`?

> To check if the policy is assigned with the given public key, the users can

Reviewer 4: ```suggest
To ensure a policy is signed with the given public key, the users can
```

define the key data and the owner of the key used to sign the policy. As illustrated
bellow, it is necessary to define the kind as `pubKey` and insert the public

> key data in the `key` field. The owner field is optional.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
key data in the `key` field. The owner field is optional, but can be useful to clarify who owns the key.
```

**Example**

```  yaml
  - kind: pubKey
    owner: bob # optional
    key: |
      -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
      MBFKHFDGHKIJH0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAEX0HFTtCfTtPmkx5p1RbDE6HJSGAVD
      BVDF6SKFSF87AASUspkQsN3FO4iyWodCy5j3o0CdIJD/KJHDJFHDFIu6sA==
      -----END PUBLIC KEY-----
```

> ### Keyless signatures validation

Reviewer 4: Should this become a `<h4>`?

When signed in keyless mode, we do not have the public key to verify. In this
situation, the users can verify the field filled with the OIDC data used during
the signing process. For that, it's necessary to define the kind of the signature
validation as `genericIssuer`. Therefore, it's possible to verify three pieces
of information from the signature:

- `issuer`(mandatory): matches the `Issuer` attribute in the certificate
generated by Fulcio. This shows the OIDC used to sign the policy

> - `subject`: field used to match the `Subject` attribute in the Fulcio's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `subject`: field used to match the `Subject` attribute in Fulcio's
```

certificate. The `Subject` field contains the information of the user used to

> authenticate in the OIDC provider. The verification field, `subject`, can have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authenticate again the OIDC provider. The verification field, `subject`, can have
```

two children fields: `equal` forces the `Subject` from the certificate to be
equal to the value defined in the signature validation; `urlPrefix` forces the
value of the certificate's `Subject` field value to be prefixed by the value
defined in the signature requirement.

**Examples**

> The following signature requirement asks the policy to be keyless signed by Alice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following signature requires the policy to be signed by Alice in a keyless manner
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

> Note well: both the `cosign verify` and the `kwctl inspect` commands can be used to show the information about keyless signatures.
```

> The following signature requires the policy to be signed by Alice in a keyless manner

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following configuration requires the policy to be signed by Alice in a keyless manner
```

using the Github OIDC:

```yaml
- kind: genericIssuer
  issuer: https://github.com/login/oauth
  subject:
    equal: alice@example.com
```

> This signature requirement enforces that the policy by signed in a Github actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This signature requirement enforces that the policy be signed in the context of a Github actions environment
```

> from a repository owner by Flavio:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from a repository owned by Flavio:
```

```yaml
- kind: genericIssuer
  issuer: https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com
  subject:
    urlPrefix: https://github.com/flavio
```

> ### Github actions signature verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GitHub actions signature verification
```

> This signature requirement enforces that the policy be signed in the context of a GitHub actions environment
> from a repository owned by Flavio:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
While the next configuration enforces the policy to be signed in the context of a GitHub actions environment
from a repository owned by the GitHub user `flavio`:
```

> This signature validation kind is used to validate policies signed in Github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The signature validation kind, `githubAction` is used to validate policies signed in a Github
```

> This signature validation kind is used to validate policies signed in Github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The signature validation kind, `githubAction`, is used to validate policies signed in a GitHub
```

> Actions. This can be achieved with the `genericIssuer` kind as well. But

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions environment. It can be achieved with the `genericIssuer` kind as well. But
```

> this kind simplifies the signature requirement creation by defining two fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`githubAction`simplifies the signature requirement creation process by defining two additional fields:
```

> The signature validation kind, `githubAction` is used to validate policies signed in a Github

Reviewer 4: ```
The signature validation kind, `githubAction` is used to validate policies signed in a GitHub
```

Author: Sorry, I did not get it. What should I change?

Reviewer 4: sorry, I didn't tag the snippet a `suggestion`. It was a silly typo about GitHub name

> - `owner` (mandatory): Github ID of the user or organization to be trusted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `owner` (mandatory): GitHub ID of the user or organization to be trusted
```

- `repo`: the name of the repository to be trusted

> **Example**
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, the last configuration snippet shown above that leveraged a `genericIssuer`, could be rewritten in this way:
```

```yaml
- kind: githubAction
  owner: kubewarden
```

### Signature annotations validation

All the signature types can have one additional optional validation field, `annotations`.

> These fields are key/value data added by the users during the signing process. Thus, it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fields are key/value data added by the users during the signing process. The data makes it
```

>   owner: kubewarden

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  owner: flavio
```

possible to trust policies that have specific required annotations.

**Examples**

> If the users want to trust only policies which have been signed with some key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the users want to trust only policies which have been signed with a specific key
```

> These fields are key/value data added by the users during the signing process. The data makes it
> possible to trust policies that have specific required annotations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These fields are key/value data added by the users during the signing process. Kubewarden
makes possible to ensure that policies are signed by trusted users **and** have specific annotations.
```

and the annotation `environment` with the value `production`, they can define the
following validation:

```yaml
- kind: pubKey
  key: |
    -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
    MBFKHFDGHKIJH0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAEX0HFTtCfTtPmkx5p1RbDE6HJSGAVD
    BVDF6SKFSF87AASUspkQsN3FO4iyWodCy5j3o0CdIJD/KJHDJFHDFIu6sA==
    -----END PUBLIC KEY-----
  annotation:
    environment: production
```

### How to use signatures verification config file to check a policy OCI artefact

> To test if a given policy passes in the signatures verification using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test if a given policy passes signature verification using the
```

# Secure Supply Chain

A Secure Supply Chain infrastructure allows software developers and users to ensure
the validity of the artefacts' chain of custody, thus mitigating
security issues in their environments. The goal of the [Sigstore project](https://sigstore.dev/)
is to provide the tools and infrastructure for validating the integrity of the supply chain.
Kubewarden leverages the [`cosign`](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) utility together
with the [fulcio](https://github.com/SigStore/fulcio) and [rekor](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor)
infrastructure offered by the sigstore project to bring these security measures to its users.

Therefore, cluster operators can configure Kubewarden to only run policies signed
by entities that they trust while policy developers can sign their policies and
publish them in a registry.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> During following sections some tools will be required to be install in order to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sections, we will need a few tools to be installed so that
```

> allow the users to sign and verify OCI artefacts signatures. They are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users can sign and verify OCI artefacts signatures. As pre-requisites, therefore,
```

> [`cosign`](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/) and [`kwctl`](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`cosign`](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/) and [`kwctl`](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl) will need to be installed.
```

> Furthermore, if you want to sign you policies in Github, you can use the available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users may also want to leverage GitHub to sign their policies. In which case, they can choose to install and use
```

[Github action](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/#github-action)

> This documentation uses the default [fulcio](https://github.com/SigStore/fulcio)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyless signing has been demonstrated using the default [fulcio](https://github.com/SigStore/fulcio)
```

and [rekor](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor) instances provided by the

> Sigstore project to perform the keyless signing. If you need to use your own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sigstore project. Users may choose to utilise their own
```

> infrastructure, check the Sigstore project documentation to learn more how to do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
infrastructure by checking the Sigstore project documentation for more details.
```

Once the keys are generated, users can use it to sign policies.

> > **WARNING**: The private key file,  `cosign.key`, should not be shared. This

Reviewer: Nit. Extra space.
```suggestion
> **WARNING**: The private key file, `cosign.key`, should not be shared. This
```

the signatures requirements from the `allOf` **AND** a minimum number of matches
from the `anyOf` section as described in the `minimumMatches` field must be valid.

#### Signature validation

> The users can validate deferents signatures validations in the `anyOf` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The users can validate different signatures in the `anyOf` and
```

      -----END PUBLIC KEY-----
```

#### Keyless signatures validation

When signed in keyless mode, we do not have the public key to verify. In this

> situation the users can verify the field filled with the OIDC data used during

Reviewer: ```suggestion
situation, the users can verify the field filled with the OIDC data used during
```

the signing process. For that, it's necessary to define the kind of the signature

> validation as `genericIssuer`. Therefore, it's possible to verify three piece

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validation as `genericIssuer`. Therefore, it's possible to verify three pieces
```

    urlPrefix: https://github.com/flavio
```

#### Github actions signing validation

This signature validation kind is used to validate policies signed in Github

> Actions. This can also be achieve with the `genericIssuer` kind as well. But

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions. This can be achieved with the `genericIssuer` kind as well. But
```

> this kind simplify the signature requirement creation by defining two fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this kind simplifies the signature requirement creation by defining two fields:
```

  owner: kubewarden
```

#### Signature annotations validation

All the signature types can have one additional optional validation field, `annotations`.

> This fields are key/value data added by the users during the signing. Thus, it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fields are key/value data added by the users during the signing process. Thus, it is
```

> possible to trust policies which have some required annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible to trust policies that have specific required annotations.
```
